.Dd January 15, 2017
.Dt INFLATEINIT 3
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm inflateInit
.Nd initialize inflate stream
.
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libz
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In zlib.h
.Ft int
.Fn inflateInit "z_streamp strm"
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Initializes the internal stream state for decompression.
The fields
.Fa next_in ,
.Fa avail_in ,
.Fa zalloc ,
.Fa zfree
and
.Fa opaque
must be initialized before by the caller.
In the current version of
.Fn inflateInit ,
the provided input is not read or consumed.
The allocation of a sliding window
will be deferred to the first call of
.Xr inflate 3
(if the decompression does not complete on the first call).
If
.Fa zalloc
and
.Fa zfree
are set to
.Dv Z_NULL ,
.Fn inflateInit
updates them to use default allocation functions.
.
.Pp
.Fn inflateInit
does not perform any decompression.
Actual decompression will be done by
.Xr inflate 3 .
So
.Fa next_in ,
.Fa avail_in ,
.Fa next_out
and
.Fa avail_out
are unused and unchanged.
The current implementation of
.Fn inflateInit
does not process any header information \(em
that is deferred until
.Xr inflate 3
is called.
.
.Pp
The
.Vt z_streamp
type is documented in
.Xr deflateInit 3 .
.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn inflateInit
returns
.Dv Z_OK
if success,
.Dv Z_MEM_ERROR
if there was not enough memory,
.Dv Z_VERSION_ERROR
if the zlib library version
is incompatible with the version assumed by the caller,
or
.Dv Z_STREAM_ERROR
if the parameters are invalid,
such as a null pointer to the structure.
.Fa msg
is set to null if there is no error message.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr inflate 3 ,
.Xr inflateBackInit 3 ,
.Xr inflateCopy 3 ,
.Xr inflateEnd 3 ,
.Xr inflateInit2 3 ,
.Xr inflateSetDictionary 3
.
.Sh HISTORY
This manual page was converted from
.In zlib.h
to mdoc format by
.An June McEnroe Aq Mt june@causal.agency .
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Jean-loup Gailly Aq Mt jloup@gzip.org
.An Mark Adler Aq Mt madler@alumni.caltech.edu
